what is it that investors want to see or
what is it that really gets them excited
a combination between growth and
deficiency as I'm sure you've heard many
times investors do care a lot more about
efficiency than they did when money was
very cheap or free some years ago so
they will look at things like a burn
multiple at earlier stages and like rule
of 40 or rule of 50 at at later stages
but nevertheless to even get them in
interested growth is still the number
one thing and as a rough rule of Thum a
company that has a million or a couple
of million in ER I think needs to grow
at two or 3x to really get a lot of
invest for interest please welcome to
the stage Kristoff Jans partner at09
hello everybody it's great to be back at
saster thank you so much for joining
I've been to every almost every saster
conference for the last 10 years or so
that usually means taking a 10 11 12
hour flight from Germany for me where
where I'm based this time it was just a
25 minute Uber drive because I moved to
Mount View for a couple of months so
that makes it very convenient so really
quick inro I'm Kristoff Jans I'm one of
the partners at09 capital point9 is an
early stage Venture Capital firm focused
on SAS Investments we've been around for
about years have invested in in a
variety of SAS companies some of which
you might have heard about such as
agolia
contentful Loom zendesk a long time ago
or some of the more recent companies
some of the more recent Investments such
as AO thec and several others we're very
Geo agnostic we're based in Europe but
we invest all over Europe in the US
sometimes even Australia I think the
founder of quiller a company out of
Australia that we invested in might be
somewhere in the
audience all right so what I want to
talk about today is the metrics that
matter like what is the data what are
the metrics that you need to convince s
investors with the right data I've tried
to focus this on series a and series B
rounds which I'm assuming is quite
relevant for many of of you here in the
audience a lot of this is also relevant
for for later rounds with maybe some
nuances at the seat stage where we
invest things are a bit different there
is there are a lot less metrics that we
can use to make up our minds so what I'm
going to talk about is not not all the
things that you need to pitch for nine
this is more like what I think you need
as you progress and and try to raise a
series a or series be around a bit later
in your
journey I talk a bit about what
investors will be looking for what r on
our experience will make them excited
about your company and I will share some
dos and don'ts first maybe let's take a
step back for just half a minute why
should you spend the time to really get
your act together before you start
fundraising meetings that's one of the
things I feel quite strongly about about
if your data is
self-explanatory in good shape easy to
understand and align with what investors
really care about you will avoid a lot
of follow-up questions and a lot of back
and forth with the investors that you're
going to talk to and that are going to
run a due diligence on you that means
you spend less time clarifying what does
this metric mean can you send some more
data on XYZ which saves a lot of time
and allows you to talk to more investors
in parallel and run a tighter process
which is very valuable especially in
2024 where fundraising has become much
much harder than it used to be a couple
of years ago last but not least if you
really have clean high quality data that
alone increases confidence with
investors and I haven't even mentioned
it here I'm I'm hoping that almost
everything that I'm going to talk about
is data and metrics that you're
interested in yourself anyway otherwise
there would be a pretty problematic
disconnect between what investors are
interested in and what you actually what
you care about and what you use to run
the business the first thing you need
and that is maybe obvious or maybe a
no-brainer uh a kpi sheet uh both with
your actuals and historic numbers and
your projections depending on the stage
of the company this can go back for the
last two years or so or it can be La
since launch and if the company maybe
didn't really launch or commercialize
the first product um eight 18 months ago
or so I think projections should usually
be for around two years I think one year
is usually not enough because you raise
a certain amount that should give you
runway for 18 months or two years and so
it's good to have a budget for that
period at the same time I don't think it
makes a lot of sense at this stage to
have plans for years and years into the
future I think two years is about right
then in terms of the granularity for
earlier stage companies or companies
with a plg motion a product let grow I
think that month over month is usually
the right choice somewhat later stage
companies or more Enterprise SAS
oriented companies with a longer s cycle
might also find that quarter over
quarter numbers work better for
them so what goes into that sheet you
can really use the famous first
principle thinking here and start
thinking about what drives your business
so you start at the top of your funnel
and you move down step by step what that
usually means in a plg business is you
have visitors or website visits at the
very top then the next step is usually a
sign up or a trial and then you have a
conversion to a pay customer and in more
enterpris SAS the funnel usually looks a
little bit different you typically have
mqls at the top sqls maybe you have one
or two steps in between and then you
also have new customers and then of
course you also need to report and
budget for churn both logo churn meaning
the number of percentage of customers
that you lose and revenue churn which is
the same but in regards to the dollars
that you lose to churn then you
basically just go down you cover key
financial metrics like Revenue mrr AR
which in a SAS company is basically the
same thing usually unless you have a lot
of onetime revenues every all the
revenue is recurring and AR is just Mr
time 12 so that's simple CX R&D SNM GNA
profit and loss you can keep it pretty
simple you have cash in cash out burn
money in the bank probably all the
things that you're also thinking about
when you think about a financial plan
one thing to I think include in a for a
Sal company is what we could call like
the Mr or ar movements or that waterfall
new business AR expansion ARR on the one
hand contraction andur on the other hand
sometimes you also have reactivation so
basically these components which
collectively determine how much ER you
are adding in every period a couple of
more comments on the kpi sheet and the
financial
plan I think the historic numbers and
the projections should follow the same
logic and the same model this is
something that we quite often times see
Founders do it like not quite right so
you get a model you try to understand it
look at all the projections and then you
ask for the actuals and it's a
completely different model that's this
just makes it really hard to process
right I think you should you shouldn't
make investors understand two different
models that doesn't make much sense and
also keep in mind investors at the
series A and B stage they will look at
your historic trajectory and will try to
make up their mind if that makes them
confident in believing what you would
say you're going to do in the future any
very big changes or subtle improvements
are somewhat suspicious so you have to
explain them really well and you make it
really easy if you allow investors to
easily connect the dots between the past
through the present and into the
future another thing is that you can
really keep it simple not too simple I
talk about that too but pretty simple
what I mean by that is that we see a lot
of financial plans with a lot of really
unnecessary details it usually happens
when you get an accountant involved like
when you export anything from an
accounting system and you don't clean it
up massively it'll have dozens maybe
hundreds of line items of cost
categories but I'm really not interested
in how much you're spending on stamps
versus stationary versus bus tickets so
you have to group it into categories
that really matter and and really it
should reflect the business and
therefore it can't be too simple so too
simple is a business plan that takes
projections out of the air and has
hardcoded numbers for revenue for
revenues in 18 months from now and I
don't understand how that Revenue builds
up so it should be a logical easy to
understand model with the right level of
Simplicity and complexity as a rule of
thmp I have never seen in my life
an Excel plan or a Google Sheets plan
that had dozens or maybe 20 Pages or TS
where it actually made sense none I've
seen a lot of these but I think they're
all just really poorly done if if
anybody wants to challenge me on that
I'd be I I'm totally up for it if you
can make the case that there is a
business at least in a startup world
that is so complex that you need 20
pages to model that let me know I
haven't seen it yet I think it can be on
two three four five pages maximum it's
usually one page or tab which has all
the relevant metrics and then maybe you
have an extra tab for some additional
assumptions or maybe where you model
like how your sales team grows a few
things like this but I think it has to
be digestible by an investor within half
an hour I think SAS is not such a
complicated business model that you need
to like totally reinvent the world here
last but not least for this one make
sure you include the typical benchmarks
or health indicators that investors are
looking for in SAS things like customer
acquisition costs burn multiple ARR per
for head and metrics like that so what
is it that investors want to see or what
is it that really gets them excited a
combination between growth and
deficiency as I'm sure you've heard many
times or experien in the last two or
three years investors do care a lot more
about efficiency than and they did when
money was very cheap or free some years
ago so they will look at things like a
burn multiple at earlier stages and like
rule of 40 or rule of 50 at at later
stages but nevertheless to even get them
interested growth is still the number
one thing and as a rough rule of Thump A
company that has a million or a couple
of million in ER I think needs to grow
at two or 3x to really get a lot of
invest for interest if you are at 5 to
10 million AR I think it's usually still
2x year-over-year growth to get a lot of
investor
interest I just mention the last things
here briefly because there are a bunch
of other things to cover 100% ndr is
something that investors really uh care
for doesn't mean that you necessarily
have to be there at the series a but I
think there needs to be some path of
getting there because people are really
afraid of investing in businesses that
keep churning dollars in the long run
it's different for more consumer or plg
style companies that have strong
virality or that have a way of
generating so much new business that
they can afford a higher J
rate and I mentioned this already a
little bit before you need a credible
plan based on the trajectory of the past
last couple of months last couple of
quarters that is aligned with how much
you want to raise so whatever your
budget says you need to you need in
financing needs to be aligned with what
you actually want to raise and this
might be particularly relevant for
series B companies you have I think you
have to have realistic valuation
expectations a lot of companies out
there have raised a series a or maybe a
series B in 2020 or
2021 and they might not have grown into
that valuation yet it's because the
multiples in the markets have just
compressed by 80% or something so I
think you have to be realistic about
that the next piece that I want to
highlight that I think you should have
whether you put it into your deck or
into your data room but in any case you
need to have it ready to share and
before you start the fundraising process
are various types of cohort analyzis a
cohort analyzis is really the only way
to get a sense for CH and retention
customer acquisition costs payback
customer lifetime value in a
subscription business I wrote about this
a lot for many years if you if it's not
that clear to you I point you to some
blog posts and templates later on you
should have a cohort analyzis for your
customers as well as a c as well as a
cord analyzes based on Revenue meaning
or mrr and you could also consider
having a cohort analyzis based on a
usage and indicator like a certain
activity that people do in your
software especially if you're early on
this can be uh very useful let's say you
have a number of customers on an annual
plan most of them started just 6 to n
months ago so basically you have no
retention data if if you look at revenue
for those but if you look at how they
behave how they use the product how they
come back you get a a leading indicator
for their future shuring or retention
Behavior which can be super useful for
yourself but which also might be
something that investors will ask you
about there are various nice interesting
maybe cool ways to visualize the data
I've shown only two examples here the
chart on the left shows the retention
for different cohorts at this one month
3 months and 6 months Mark so what you
can see in this chart if you go from the
left to the right that the more recent
cohorts are doing better that is a great
sign for this fictional company here if
you look at the chart on the right it
shows for different cohorts the
contribution margin over time contri
contribution margin basically just means
it's the gross profit of that cohort
minus the customer acquisition costs and
so what you can see here is that after
how many months after the initial
acquisition does each of these cohorts
break even on their customer acquisition
costs couple of more tips and tricks or
dos and don'ts on this don't mix monthly
and annual plans if you do this all in
one bucket it makes more sense because
some of the annually and the annual plan
customers they didn't even have a chance
to cancel their subscriptions you have
to look at cohort analyzis for monthly
customers and annual plan customers
separately similarly if you serve very
different types of customers it makes
sense to run these cohort analyzes on a
per segment basis and because the
averages across vastly different
customer types really don't really give
you the the same
insights and if your overall retention
isn't great maybe because you have some
non ICP customers or other some other
factors that kind of don't make you look
really good if you do that cohort
analysis you can consider zooming into
your best performing customer segments
so a little bit of cherry picking in a
fundraising process is allowed you just
have to be transparent about it you have
to explain it and if you you have to you
shouldn't overdo it if you end up with a
statement like for our most active users
which we Define as those that use the
app at least once a week our wow to to D
to M ratio is 100% that is that doesn't
make any sense so you can do that but it
has to make sense what is it that
investors are looking for here they want
to see excellent retention because SAS
is all about keeping customers in the
long run and they want to see this at
least in one segment as I've mentioned
they want to see positive Trends and
they will look at your at various
cohorts to see if they can find some
positive Trends there it could be that
the more recent cohorts look better than
the older ones it could be like a
so-called smiling cohort graph which
describes the situation when after an
initial period of some churn in a
certain for the remaining customers
spend more and more so that the curve
goes up again after some years the next
thing I want to talk about is everything
around marketing and lead generation
you'll have to include some data in your
fundraising materials about how you are
acquiring customers and where you get
your leads
from that's usually data on how much you
spent how many leads you get how many
conversions customers you get on a
channel by Channel or Source by Source
basis you can see here a dashboard from
GE board it can Al can of course also be
a spreadsheet and you use it to show the
costs for every lead or trial or SQL or
customer depending on your conversion
model and for different
sources this is another example for a
portfolio company this is a drills down
into one specific channel in this case
LinkedIn so this starts with the entire
universe of contactable leads on
LinkedIn and it goes down through the
the steps like how many persons are
reachable how many emails or Linkin
messages did we send that month how many
responded how many responded to the to
the second touch how many book the demo
and these things so make it clear how
you've calculated your CS because there
is probably not one generally accepted
way of how customer acquisition costs
are calculated you can do it in many
different ways so make sure to explain
how you do that or add a foot mode
otherwise that will for sure trigger a
follow-up question from an investor like
they will ask are these customer
acquisition costs are they Blended
across different channels how about the
organic signups how do the how do you
factor in those so you can Define how
you do it and then just be open about it
you can also in some cases exclude some
of the initial startup or buildup costs
in your budget because you're in your um
budget you're estimating the costs to
acquire the next customer and the cost
for that next customer might be lower
than the the first couple of customers
because initially it you started with
nothing and so the head count costs were
probably very high in for Fortune to the
number of fets of customers that you
acquired but you have to be transparent
about it and has to make sense to to you
and you need to be able to explain
it what investors really are looking for
here is they want to see One Source or
one channel that's clearly working and
that seems to be efficient and scalable
it sounds simple but it's actually
pretty hard to prove that like the
question if you get the question how do
you know that this Channel or this
Source will scale to another 10x or 20x
it's a pretty hard to answer question
because you don't really know it until
you've done it but you can back up your
argumentation there but expect that
question to to come
up next one sales and pipeline invest
will of course ask you about how you're
doing sales what your pipeline look how
your pipeline has evolved this year is
an a snapshot of a pipeline evolution
chart this one is another visualization
that I really like because it really
shows you how the dollars are flowing
through the different pipeline stages
months over months or quarter over
quarter and what investors are looking
for here ideally every quarter is a new
record in terms of new pipeline added
and closed one that's not always
achievable but that's what investors of
course when of course gets them
excited another thing that we often
observe when we see when we work with
companies or when we see pictures is
that the pipeline in the middle of the
funnel or top of the funnel keeps
growing but the closed one numbers don't
really go up in the same proportion what
that usually means is something isn't
quite working like maybe the ICP
definition isn't tight enough or you're
not really disciplined when it comes to
removing deals from the pipeline that
you should remove and this is one of the
things that you can see in this chart
here because this also include at the
bottom the dollars in pipeline value
that you've lost or that you've removed
which is pretty important and another
sheet which I think is extremely helpful
which if you look at it as an investor
really tells you a lot is the
performance of the of your entire sales
team and you can anonymize the names
quarter over quarter relative to their
targets including those AES that didn't
work out this is just a an example sheet
here with some placeholder data where
you can see how that come ated sales
people early on it there is a lot of
yellow and red so it took some time
until this company found the right uh
sales flavor that John here for example
he didn't really work out so after three
quarters he had to go whereas Mary
didn't achieve her Targets in the first
two quarters but then in the third
quarter she did and so she kept
performing really well over time and
then you see that in the subsequent quar
the company added more salese and was
able to show that most of them got to
their target levels um after one or two
or three quarters and that is really
exactly what investors care about they
want to see proof that you can hire and
train AES and get them to reach their
quota in a repeatable and pretty
predictable manner that doesn't mean
that every salesperson will work out
it's actually quite the opposite if an
investor sees a company with 10 or 20
salespeople and they've never let go A
salesperson that almost sells you
something tells you that something isn't
working because it it's unheard of that
every single salesperson and works out
last but not least I think we are on the
AI stage here so we have to talk a
little bit about AI before I finish a
lot in AI is less about data and more
about explaining what you do and the
product and your vision but there is
also some data that investors will
probably ask you about they will
probably ask you for usage data because
there are a lot of companies out there
that had Revenue numbers going through
the roof um and then had a lot of term
kick in as well a lot of budgets are
available now because there is so much
experimentation investors care really
about the details they want to see uh
your retention both on a revenue
perspective both on a revenue basis but
also on a usage basis depending on the
product that you're building if you like
train your own model or if you find you
in an existing model investors might
want to ask might ask about the
performance of that model how the
performance improves with more data is
that proprietary is that data
proprietary does it give you an edge
over time like what is also the
threshold in terms of what a customer
expect in terms of the accuracy of the
AI and what you can deliver and last but
not least because I see I'm running out
of time something that we are not really
used to from the non AI SAS world is
really cost of good Soul so they will
ask you about the impact of using AI on
unit economics I think I at least and I
think others too are not that worried
about the cost of apis usually because
those costs are expected to uh go down
pretty rapidly but if you have an AI
product with humans in the loop there
will be the question like is it credible
that you can remove those humans and
really automate everything in the near
future so what investors want to see
when it comes to AI is there real usage
and real retention or is it just a Fed
if you want to look up some of these
some of the posts which are like the
basis for this short talk go to our
website
www. 9.com on and letters there's a
library tab if you look for things like
cohorts templates fundraising you'll
find a lot of posts about everything
from cohorts to financial metrics
templates and related materials thank
you so much for your attention